README.md, before:

# Safe Space

<img alt="alt_text" height="200px" src="https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/blob/8431affcc3a5c5a5ac65f072638aef6f390a79b3/fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/images/featureGraphic.png" />

![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/aashishksahu/SafeSpace.svg?logo=github)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/aashishksahu/SafeSpace.svg)
![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/total?labelColor=%23102C57&color=%23F8F0E5)

## Installation

Download the APK from [here](https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/releases)

[<img alt="alt_text" width="200px" src="https://user-content.gitlab-static.net/0cdd89e5cc347206465251782615ab91f99a542d/68747470733a2f2f6664726f69642e6769746c61622e696f2f617274776f726b2f62616467652f6765742d69742d6f6e2e706e67" />](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.privacymatters.safespace/)
[<img alt="alt_text" width="200px" src="https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/blob/be3c70a58220e21d643151e44699e9931d845d77/assets/google-play-badge.png" />](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.privacymatters.safespace&pcampaignid=web_share)
## Disclaimer

This app uses the app-specific internal storage to store files, this location is already encrypted by the android system and isn't available to other apps. Safe space app is provided "as is", without any warranty of any kind. It shouldn't be considered as an absolute safe way to store files. The purpose of this app is to create a separate space for valuable and important files for an average user and must not be considered safe if you are a high-profile target for hackers, crime syndicates, government agencies and other such organizations. I recommend investing in a lightweight laptop with more reliable methods of information protection such as Tails OS and VeraCrypt (This is not an endorsement, just a suggestion). It is your sole responsibility what you store in this app.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change. This app is new and bound to have a few bugs, it would mean a lot to me if you can contribute to the project in any way possible.

## Privacy Policy

This app doesn't collect or send any telemetry data to any server, the documents and text files you store stay on your device and cannot be recovered by me in case the device is reset, or the app is uninstalled.
Whatever happens on your phone stays on your phone (for Safe space app).

## FAQ
#### What is Safe Space?
Safe space is an app that creates a separate place on your android device to store valuable files. This storage location is not visible to other apps and is encrypted by the system by default. 

Features:
* Store files in a secure storage location that is not visible to other apps and is secured by device encryption and system authentication (Biometric and PIN/Pattern/Password). [More info here](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/app-specific)
* Click Pictures and shoot videos within the app
* Open Images, Audio, Video, PDF documents and plain text documents
* Create simple text notes without leaving the app
* Dark and light mode
* ability to copy and move files
* Import from and export files to external storage without storage permissions
* Completely offline with no telemetry and data collection

#### Who is this app for?
This app is for anyone who wants to store important files on their android phone and are not an active target of high-profile adversaries such as the government or organized crime syndicates and similar adversaries.

#### Why should I use this app, isn't android pretty "secure" these days?
Storing files on android is a mess, you can see everything in a file manager app (which makes sense) but so can the apps installed on your phone. A lot of apps still require "All files access" permission just to function (which is dangerous in my opinion), and most people don't think twice before allowing this permission. Even if you haven't allowed this permission, most apps require audio, video and media permissions which again can access most files if they are not honest about the MIME types in their app's design. 

In simple terms, most apps have file access permissions that are often not required for that app to function (e.g. - MS Office apps) and can actually read sensitive information from your files (e.g. - Aadhar number, PAN number etc.). These apps may not necessarily access information beyond what is required but they have the possibility to do so, which means, that you and your privacy are at the mercy of such app developers.

#### Has there ever been a security audit?
There hasn't been a security audit yet but the app doesn't use any non-standard ways of security, this app uses device encryption and uses system authentication (biometrics or screen lock) as security measures.
If you are a security researcher, it would be great if you can provide insights on my app.

#### Why should I use this app, XYZ app is better?
I respect your choice.

Still... maybe take a look at [this.](https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/issues/8)

#### Who am I and why should you trust me?
I am a full-time SAP technical consultant from India and developing this app was a hobby project which came into existence mostly because there's no good and reliable way of storing files on android devices. Also, you don't have to trust me, the code is open source, so you can take a look and I would be very happy if you choose to contribute. Besides that this app doesn't have internet permissions and does not use any google play services or firebase or 3rd-party analytics and telemetry services. Again don't trust me, just check the code :)

## Contact Me

app.aashishksahu@gmail.com

## License

[GNU General Public License v3.0](https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

Donations and matters of the green paper

README.md, after:

# Safe Space

<img alt="alt_text" height="200px" src="https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/blob/8431affcc3a5c5a5ac65f072638aef6f390a79b3/fastlane/metadata/android/en-US/images/featureGraphic.png" />

![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/aashishksahu/SafeSpace.svg?logo=github)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/aashishksahu/SafeSpace.svg)
![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/total?labelColor=%23102C57&color=%23F8F0E5)

## Installation

Download the APK from [here](https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/releases)

[<img alt="alt_text" width="200px" src="https://user-content.gitlab-static.net/0cdd89e5cc347206465251782615ab91f99a542d/68747470733a2f2f6664726f69642e6769746c61622e696f2f617274776f726b2f62616467652f6765742d69742d6f6e2e706e67" />](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/org.privacymatters.safespace/)
[<img alt="alt_text" width="200px" src="https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/blob/be3c70a58220e21d643151e44699e9931d845d77/assets/google-play-badge.png" />](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.privacymatters.safespace&pcampaignid=web_share)
## Disclaimer

This app uses the app-specific internal storage to store files, this location is already encrypted by the android system and isn't available to other apps. Safe space app is provided "as is", without any warranty of any kind. It shouldn't be considered as an absolute safe way to store files. The purpose of this app is to create a separate space for valuable and important files for an average user and must not be considered safe if you are a high-profile target for hackers, crime syndicates, government agencies and other such organizations. I recommend investing in a lightweight laptop with more reliable methods of information protection such as Tails OS and VeraCrypt (This is not an endorsement, just a suggestion). It is your sole responsibility what you store in this app.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change. This app is new and bound to have a few bugs, it would mean a lot to me if you can contribute to the project in any way possible.

## Privacy Policy

This app doesn't collect or send any telemetry data to any server, the documents and text files you store stay on your device and cannot be recovered by me in case the device is reset, or the app is uninstalled.
Whatever happens on your phone stays on your phone (for Safe space app).

## Donations and matters of the green paper 🤑🤑🤑
I've been getting emails from Paypal sending me money, since I have never used Paypal (not very popular in my country), I thought it was a scam. It is only recently (Dec 2023) that I realised that users of my app were sending me money (Thank you for that btw!!).
Currently I am not accepting any monetary contributions as this app is not incuring any expenses apart from a weekend or two of coding. Also, this app is my tiny  contribution towards combating the reign of big tech and their malicious ways of business and I want everyone to use the full version of it without any paywalls.

If you'd like to show some love then please contribute by sharing it with your people and also with your friends who code so that the app can be maintained for long term and improvements and features keep coming. Thank you very much for using my app :)

## FAQ
#### What is Safe Space?
Safe space is an app that creates a separate place on your android device to store valuable files. This storage location is not visible to other apps and is encrypted by the system by default. 

Features:
* Store files in a secure storage location that is not visible to other apps and is secured by device encryption and system authentication (Biometric and PIN/Pattern/Password). [More info here](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/app-specific)
* Click Pictures and shoot videos within the app
* Open Images, Audio, Video, PDF documents and plain text documents
* Create simple text notes without leaving the app
* Dark and light mode
* ability to copy and move files
* Import from and export files to external storage without storage permissions
* Completely offline with no telemetry and data collection

#### Who is this app for?
This app is for anyone who wants to store important files on their android phone and are not an active target of high-profile adversaries such as the government or organized crime syndicates and similar adversaries.

#### Why should I use this app, isn't android pretty "secure" these days?
Storing files on android is a mess, you can see everything in a file manager app (which makes sense) but so can the apps installed on your phone. A lot of apps still require "All files access" permission just to function (which is dangerous in my opinion), and most people don't think twice before allowing this permission. Even if you haven't allowed this permission, most apps require audio, video and media permissions which again can access most files if they are not honest about the MIME types in their app's design. 

In simple terms, most apps have file access permissions that are often not required for that app to function (e.g. - MS Office apps) and can actually read sensitive information from your files (e.g. - Aadhar number, PAN number etc.). These apps may not necessarily access information beyond what is required but they have the possibility to do so, which means, that you and your privacy are at the mercy of such app developers.

#### Has there ever been a security audit?
There hasn't been a security audit yet but the app doesn't use any non-standard ways of security, this app uses device encryption and uses system authentication (biometrics or screen lock) as security measures.
If you are a security researcher, it would be great if you can provide insights on my app.

#### Why should I use this app, XYZ app is better?
I respect your choice.

Still... maybe take a look at [this.](https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/issues/8)

#### Who am I and why should you trust me?
I am a full-time SAP technical consultant from India and developing this app was a hobby project which came into existence mostly because there's no good and reliable way of storing files on android devices. Also, you don't have to trust me, the code is open source, so you can take a look and I would be very happy if you choose to contribute. Besides that this app doesn't have internet permissions and does not use any google play services or firebase or 3rd-party analytics and telemetry services. Again don't trust me, just check the code :)

## Contact Me

app.aashishksahu@gmail.com

## License

[GNU General Public License v3.0](https://github.com/aashishksahu/SafeSpace/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
